[docs] Add interoprability guide for using Tailwind CSS (#30700)
mui-org/material-ui: docs/src/pages/guides/interoperability/interoperability.md

### The `styled()` API

It works exactly like styled components. You can [use the same guide](/guides/interoperability/#styled-components).

## Tailwind CSS

![stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss.svg?style=social&label=Star)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/tailwindcss)

> If you are used to Tailwind CSS and you want to use it together with the MUI components, you should follow the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are used to Tailwind CSS and want to use it together with the MUI components, follow these steps:
```

1. Add Tailwlind CSS to your project, following the instructions in https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation.

> 2. Remove the Tailwind's `base` directive in favor of the `CSSBaseline` component provided by `@mui/material`, as it plays nicer with the MUI components.

Author: I decided to recommend this, as some of the Tailwind's default break the MUI components, for example setting a transparent background on the buttons. This happens because all emotion styles are injected before Tailwind's (including the base styles).

We can also use the insertion point and add the base styles to be injected first, before the emotion styles, using the [insertion point](https://github.com/emotion-js/emotion/tree/main/packages/sheet#insertionpoint). Maybe this is even better, as the prepend option will anyway be deprecated.

**index.css**

```diff
-@tailwind base;
 @tailwind components;
 @tailwind utilities;
```

3. Add the `important` option, using the id of your app wrapper, for example `"#root"`.

**tailwind.config.js**

```diff
 module.exports = {
   content: [
     "./src/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}",
   ],
+  important: '#root',
   theme: {
     extend: {},
   },
   plugins: [],
 }

```

This is necessary for ensuring that the [deeper elements](#deeper-elements-5), can be customized using the utility Tailwind's classes.
More details on this option can be found here https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration#selector-strategy

> 3. Fix the CSS injection order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Fix the CSS injection order
```

Oops, forgot this one. There's a 3 up there already :)

**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which gives MUI precedence over your custom styles. To remove the need for **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done in MUI:

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { StyledEngineProvider } from '@mui/material/styles';

export default function GlobalCssPriority() {
  return (
    <StyledEngineProvider injectFirst>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override MUI's styles. */}
    </StyledEngineProvider>
  );
}
```

**Note:** If you are using emotion and have a custom cache in your app, that one will override the one coming from MUI. In order for the injection order to still be correct, you need to add the prepend option. Here is an example:

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { CacheProvider } from '@emotion/react';
import createCache from '@emotion/cache';

const cache = createCache({
  key: 'css',
  prepend: true,
});

export default function PlainCssPriority() {
  return (
    <CacheProvider value={cache}>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override MUI's styles. */}
    </CacheProvider>
  );
}
```

> **Note:** If you are using styled-components and have `StyleSheetManager` with a custom `target`, make sure that the target is the first element in the HTML `<head>`. If you are curious to see how it can be done, you can take a look on the `StylesProvider` implementation in the `@mui/styled-engine-sc` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If you are using styled-components and have `StyleSheetManager` with a custom `target`, make sure that the target is the first element in the HTML `<head>`. If you are curious to see how it can be done, you can take a look at the `StylesProvider` implementation in the `@mui/styled-engine-sc` package.
```

Additionally, maybe we could use a link in: _"you can take a look at the `StylesProvider` implementation"_?

Author: This is a good point, I will need to update it in all occurrences, as this sections appears in other sections too. Will create a follow up PR for that 👍

Now you can start using Tailwind CSS on the MUI components

**App.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@mui/material/Slider';

export default function App() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Slider defaultValue={30} className="color-indigo-500" />
    </div>
  );
}
```

### Deeper elements

> If you attempt to style the Slider, you will likely need to affect some of the Slider's child elements, for example the thumb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you attempt to style the Slider, for example, you'll likely want to customize its child elements. 
```

> The following examples override the slider's `thumb` style and adds custom styles for the active pseudo state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example showcases how to override the Slider's `thumb`style.
```

**SliderThumbOverrides.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@mui/material/Slider';

export default function SliderThumbOverrides() {
  return (
    <Slider
      className="p-4"
      componentsProps={{ thumb: { className: 'hover:shadow-none' } }}
    />
  );
}
```

### Styling pseudo states

> If you would like to style the component based on some pseudo state, you can use the appropariate key in the `classes` prop.
> Here is an example of how you can style the component, when the active state is on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to style a component pseudo-state, you can use the appropriate key in the `classes` prop.
Here is an example of how you can style the Slider's active state:
```

**SliderPseudoStateOverrides.js**

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import Slider from '@mui/material/Slider';

export default function SliderThumbOverrides() {

>   return <Slider className="p-4" classes={{ active: 'shadow-none' }} />;

Reviewer 2: This makes me think that `classes` prop is still useful. Joy might have to support classes as well?

Reviewer 2: or if we want to drop `classes`, then I should be able to read the state from `componentProps`.

```js
<Slider
  className="p-4"
  componentsProps={{
    root: ({ ownerState }) => ({
      className: ownerState.active && 'shadow-none',
    })
  }}
/>
```

No need to discuss on this PR. We can revisit later.

Author: The important part here is how we want to support it in the base components, what would make most sense there. Your suggestion about making the `componentsProps` accept callback sounds great, more over because sometimes some props may depend on the state of the owner component. cc @michaldudak

Reviewer 3: This is something I also realized recently - in Base (and Joy as well) we do need a way to customize class names applied automatically (or even disable them). The callback in componentsProps can work, but it's pretty verbose.
But in general yes, we can consider having a callback here. It may come in handy not just for settings className for other props as well.

### The `styled()` API

It works exactly like styled components. You can [use the same guide](/guides/interoperability/#styled-components).

## Tailwind CSS

![stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tailwindlabs/tailwindcss.svg?style=social&label=Star)
![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/tailwindcss)

If you are used to Tailwind CSS and want to use it together with the MUI components, you can start by cloning the [Tailwind CSS](https://github.com/mui-org/material-ui/tree/master/examples/tailwind) example project.
If you use a different framework, or already have set up your project, follow these steps:

> 1. Add Tailwlind CSS to your project, following the instructions in https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Add Tailwind CSS to your project, following the instructions in https://tailwindcss.com/docs/installation.
```

> 2. Remove the Tailwind's `base` directive in favor of the `CSSBaseline` component provided by `@mui/material`, as it plays nicer with the MUI components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Remove Tailwind's `base` directive in favor of the `CSSBaseline` component provided by `@mui/material`, as it plays nicer with the MUI components.
```

**index.css**

```diff
-@tailwind base;
 @tailwind components;
 @tailwind utilities;
```

3. Add the `important` option, using the id of your app wrapper, for example `"#root"`.

**tailwind.config.js**

```diff
 module.exports = {
   content: [
     "./src/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}",
   ],
+  important: '#root',
   theme: {
     extend: {},
   },
   plugins: [],
 }

```

> This is necessary for ensuring that the [deeper elements](#deeper-elements-5), can be customized using the utility Tailwind's classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is necessary for ensuring that the [deeper elements](#deeper-elements-5), can be customized using Tailwind's utility classes.
```

More details on this option can be found here https://tailwindcss.com/docs/configuration#selector-strategy

4. Fix the CSS injection order

**Note:** Most CSS-in-JS solutions inject their styles at the bottom of the HTML `<head>`, which gives MUI precedence over your custom styles. To remove the need for **!important**, you need to change the CSS injection order. Here's a demo of how it can be done in MUI:

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { StyledEngineProvider } from '@mui/material/styles';

export default function GlobalCssPriority() {
  return (
    <StyledEngineProvider injectFirst>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override MUI's styles. */}
    </StyledEngineProvider>
  );
}
```

> **Note:** If you are using emotion and have a custom cache in your app, that one will override the one coming from MUI. In order for the injection order to still be correct, you need to add the prepend option. Here is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** If you are using emotion and have a custom cache in your app, it will override the one coming from MUI. In order for the injection order to still be correct, you need to add the prepend option. Here is an example:
```

```jsx
import * as React from 'react';
import { CacheProvider } from '@emotion/react';
import createCache from '@emotion/cache';

const cache = createCache({
  key: 'css',
  prepend: true,
});

export default function PlainCssPriority() {
  return (
    <CacheProvider value={cache}>
      {/* Your component tree. Now you can override MUI's styles. */}
    </CacheProvider>
  );
}
```

**Note:** If you are using styled-components and have `StyleSheetManager` with a custom `target`, make sure that the target is the first element in the HTML `<head>`. If you are curious to see how it can be done, you can take a look at the `StylesProvider` implementation in the `@mui/styled-engine-sc` package.

> Now you can start using Tailwind CSS on the MUI components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now it's all set up and you can start using Tailwind CSS on the MUI components!
```
